# [Signal 0: White Lake](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/09/signal-0-white-lake.html)
*2013-09-06*

Is anyone out there? Is anyone listening? I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells
tales and I'm sending out a signal.

This signal contains something important. Information. Knowledge, they say, is
power, so consider me an arsenal of power.

If you can hear me, take note. This broadcast is for and about the people of
White Lake, a tiny clave bordering the jagged wastes. If you aren't in White
Lake, find a way to get this information to them. They need to know what's out
there. They need help. They need...heroes.

If you're *in* White Lake, listen closely.

There's been some odd happenings around your clave lately. Which, I suppose,
isn't that odd in the Beyond. But your town of White Lake is usually a fairly
placid little oasis, the kind of place a traveller can put his feet up for a
few days, maybe have some time to pick the glass shards from his shoes after
a journey through the wastes. You folks are friendly enough, certainly as
friendly as can be expected in the Beyond, and trouble usually keeps its
distance. But sometimes trouble gets bold.

An abhuman tribe has roamed into your area. You've seen them in the distance;
you've seen their grim messages. And you know their meaning. They're watching
you. They're called the Bloody Lashers.

These cannibalistic degenerates are led by a particularly loathsome glaive who
calls himself Klert the Cruel. Rumors tell that Klert possesses a whip made of
pure energy that can paralyze those it strikes. He likes his food...very fresh
when he eats it. So far, the Lashers have only attacked those who stray too far
from the town and a few traders who have been caught passing too near their
territory. They haven't struck the town yet, but why not?

Are they drawing off your resources, making you vulnerable? Are they looking
for something in the area? Is something keeping them at bay? And can it hold
them off forever?

Somebody needs to confront the Bloody Lashers and drive them off, and soon.

*Interlude*

Unfortunately Klert the Cruel isn't the only concern facing White Lake. I know
some of the history of your region. I know that once, you were practically part
of the Steadfast. You were ruled by a king. But he was no kind monarch, leading
through wisdom. He was a tyrant, a violent, black-hearted villian and you
overthrew him, hung him high as payment for his crimes against his people.

Though the king is long dead, his home still stands: Seliscore Castle. And you
believed it was empty for the longest time. But it isn't, is it?

You've heard the rumors, same as I have. Odd lights in the night; unusual
terrible noises; a sense of creeping forboding. Fortunately, the castle is far
enough away from the town that noone seems to have been harmed, but that
doesn't mean you aren't all looking in its direction, and wondering. Are
bandits, abhumans, or worse squatting in the old castle? Perhaps, but then
again Klert the Cruel and his Bloody Lashers are giving it a wide berth. They
seem to be as spooked as you are. What could the vicious, abhuman cannibals be
afraid of?

They seem to think the place is haunted. And that rumor's been making its way
in the town, too, hasn't it? Has the ghost of the old king returned to punish
you for his downfall?

Well, ghosts doesn't seem too likely, but I've seen alot of strange stuff in my
time. And I know not to discount anything off-hand. But one thing is certain.
Something strange is happening there. Is anyone brave enough to investigate the
mysterious happenings in Seliscore castle?

*Interlude*

There are other rumors in White Lake: A creature made of shards of glass
stalking the wastes, searching for something. The jagged walker, as it's been
dubbed, has only been seen in the distance. What manner of creature is it? More
importantly, what's it looking for?

On certain nights of the year a glow can be seen coming from under the lake,
but it's never in the same place twice, and noone's ever figured out what
causes it.

Have you heard the one about the frozen tree? It grows in a wooded area near
the lake only for a few days of the year before it melts. The tree has bark of
ice and leaves of snow and a slice of its icy fruit can cool a traveller down
on the hottest day or chill the warmest drink. But picking it is hard, because
the tree is so cold it burns.

*Music*

I've been talking for too long, and it's time to say goodbye. To the people of
White Lake, I wish you the best for the future. To everyone else who can hear
me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales from the Steadfast and the
Beyond. Safe travels, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.

	Disclaimer

	The Monte Cook Games logo, Numenera, and the Numenera logo are trademarks
	of Monte Cook Games, LLC in the U.S.A. and other countries. All Monte Cook
	Games characters and character names, and the distinctive likenesses
	thereof, are trademarks of Monte Cook Games, LLC. Content on this site or
	associated files derived from Monte Cook Games publications is © 2013 Monte
	Cook Games, LLC. Monte Cook Games permits web sites and similar fan-created
	publications for their games, subject to the policy given at
	http://www.numenera.com/fan-use-policy/. The contents of this site are for
	personal, non-commercial use only. Use of Monte Cook Games’s trademarks and
	copyrighted materials anywhere on this site and its associated files should
	not be construed as a challenge to those trademarks or copyrights.
	Materials on this site may not be reproduced or distributed except with the
	permission of the site owner and in compliance with Monte Cook Games policy
	given at http://www.numenera.com/fan-use-policy/.

	This is an unofficial and unauthorized transcription of The Signal, a
	podcast set in the world of Monte Cook's Numenera. Any content herein that
	is not covered by trademarks of Monte Cook Games, LLC are (c) the author of
	The Signal. The Signal can be found online at:
	http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/
