# [Signal 2: Nihliesh](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/09/signal-2-nihliesh.html)

Is this coming through? I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is
the signal.

Ignorance is my enemy. Knowledge is the sword that slays it. Question
everything. Search for truth, and be careful who you trust.

If you can hear me take note, this broadcast is for and about the people of the
trade city of Nihliesh. There are many secrets in Nihliesh, and many powerful
people--and monsters--who would kill to keep them. You must guard your words,
and your thoughts, well.

Get this information to those in Nihliesh who can act on it. If you're in
Nihliesh, listen closely.

*...static...other voice: "who is this?"...static*

It's difficult to keep a secret in Nihliesh, isn't it? Your city is lousey with
spies and thieves, and many of them are telepaths. It's fairly safe to say all
information in the city eventually finds its way to the second tier, directly
into the hungy mind of Ni-chodoss. But she isn't omniscient, is she? And there
are some things that even she does not know. And some of those things can be a
danger to her. And everyone else in the city.

One such unknown is the question of who the Three Swords are. You may have
heard the whispers of this new faction that has recently arisen within the
city. You may have seen their logo--three swords in a triangle--scrawled on a
wall or a door. If you know of them, you know they have made it clear they are
enemies of the Fahat.

But where most would find only death in opposition to the inhuman masters of 
your city, the Three Swords have had success. They've murdered agents of the
Fahat, sabotaged their efforts; but who are they?

Would you believe that they are Angulan Knights? A trio of them have
infiltrated the city and begun to build a network to oppose the Fahat--and why
wouldn't they? The knights *hate* mutants, and the Fahat have built a religion
out of mutation.

The knights have been provided with protective numenera to help them hide from
psychic spies by the Order of Truth. Both groups have a vested interest in
ending the threat of the Fahat.

And so a shadow war begins in Nihliesh. And war...equals opportunity. Siding
with the Three Swords or the Fahat could make an enterprising soul some very
powerful friends--and some equally powerful enemies.

*...static...other voice: "find where this is coming from"...*

In a city that holds mutants in high esteem, it should come as no surprise that
there are those who would be willing to pay a high price to alter themselves
physically. And of course, there are those who are willing to profit from that
desire. One such individual is called The Splicer.

No one knows where The Splicer came from or how long she's been in Nihliesh.
Some say she was once a Sarracenian, or an Aeon Priest. Some believe that she's
extraterrestrial, a visitant. She is humanoid, most assuredly, but if she was
once human, she has moved beyond humanity. She has become something better...
yet far, far worse.

The Splicer deals in genetic manipulation and biological numenera, and she
commands a high price for her work. Do you want...great strength? Psychic
power? Longer limbs? Extra eyes? She can do it, and she delivers on her
promises. But she also promises one other thing: no enhancement comes without
its drawback. Every manipulation of your genes exacts a toll from your body.
And though you may get exactly what you want from The Splicer, you may not like
what you become.

*...static...*

There are other rumors in Nihliesh. Residents in the lower tier have reported
hearing strange music coming from somewhere deep within the city. From a
section the Fahat have forbidden them from going.

There's a merchant in the city who sets up seemingly at random but can be
recognized for his big red hat. His stock is limited, but he only trades for
oddities and artifacts.

An art installation on the upper tier has gone missing recently. The iridescent
orb was a gift to the city from a prominent noble of the Pytharon Empire, and
it has vanished in broad daylight.

*...static...other voice: "this isn't coming from inside the city."...*

Hmm. It seems that I have overstayed my welcome, and it's time to end this
broadcast. Trade will flow through Nihliesh no matter who controls the city.

To everyone who can hear me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales from
the Steadfast and the Beyond.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

Vaux, end signal.
