# [Signal 3: Keford](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/09/signal-3-keford.html)

Is there anyone out there? I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this
is the signal.

I provide you with information. What you do with it is up to you. But hopefully
you use it well.

If you can hear me take note, this broadcast is for and about the people of the
logging town of Keford, on the coast of the sea kingdom of Ghan. Even a
seemingly sleepy part of the Steadfast could become the sight of a major event;
an event that has far-reaching effects.

You must make sure this information reaches Keford. If you are in Keford,
listen closely.

*...music...*

Your lush port town is located right on the border between Ghan and Navarene,
nestled next to the Westwood. Indeed the Westwood is where some of the finest
goods produced in your town find their origin, from lumber to furniture. The
problem, of course, is that Navarene claims the entire span of the Westwood as
their own.

Thankfully, this hasn't been a serious problem. Your loggers have been able to
operate in the Westwood, mainly because the border is virtually impossible to
defend on the southern edge of the forest.

Virtually impossible.

One Navarene military officer sees that as a challenge.

Now it's possible you've heard the name of Commander Lovana. She's a decorated
career soldier reknowned in her home nation, and she's begun the construction
of a small fort at the edge of the woods on the southern border. Her intention
is to stop loggers from Ghan from exploiting the Westwood. This would be a huge
blow to the economy of Keford; indeed, it would send ripples throughout the
entire sea kingdom.

King Laird has ordered additional troops to Keford in recent weeks, but
officially, there's nothing he can do without further provoking Navarene.
Unofficially though, word is the town's council has begun looking for...outside
help. Someone who could act on their behalf to...dissuade Commander Lovana, or
sabotage her efforts. The Westwood is, after all, quite dangerous. And if the
fort, or its garrison, were to disappear, it's unlikely anyone would ever find
out why.

Then again, violence is rarely the only option. Maybe someone could find a
diplomatic solution to the troubles on the border, one that could benefit both
sides.

*...music...*

Humans have only recently begun to plumb the secrets of the Westwood, slowly
creeping toward the lush interior and its natural riches. And as you've gone
you've discovered that you aren't the first to arrive there. High in the trees,
webbing comes together to form small villages. Scuttling overhead in the canopy
belies the presence of 8-eyed scouts who watch your movements. And every now
and then, you can spot them. The culovas.

Normally, they're peaceful, reclusive; content to live and let live. But
sometimes, someone can do something rather rash. A local hunter, the glaive
Baral, recently killed a particularly big culova during a foray into the
forest. He returned triumphant, mounted the head on his wall as a grim
trophy...and that's when the nearby culova band became aggressive.

Loggers, guards, explorers--doesn't matter who their targets are, they've been
using hit-and-run attacks for weeks now, spraying poison on those they catch.
Rarely do they kill; but you've seen the wounded, and you know something has
enraged the spiders.

Baral is looking to put together a posse to head back into the forest and put
an end to the threat once and for all. And your leaders have put up a reward to
anyone brave enough to go with him.

But it's curious. Many culova have been killed over the years and never have
they reacted so violently in response. What, exactly, has angered them? Could
they still be reasoned with? Or is it safer to just wipe the lot of them out.

*...music...*

There are other rumors in Keford. It's said there's an old witch, possibly a
Saracenian, who lives in an old hut within the Westwood. It's said she can brew
a cure to any ailment out of the local plant life. But the path to her home is
treacherous, and only the desperate risk it.

There's a spot in Ryness Bay where water lacks buyancy. It has been marked with
a warning, as the spot is quite deep, and anything that enters sinks right to
the bottom. It's said more than one ship lies on the bay floor.

Just over the Navarene border along the coast, legend holds there's a hidden
cave, which the pirates of the Seventh Crucible used as a hideout. It's said
they stashed a fortune in shins and numenera there before being sunk by the
red fleets. No one has ever found it.

*...music...*

It's time for this broadcast to end. To the people of Keford I wish the best;
you are rugged folk, and you will endure.

To everyone else who can hear me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales
from the Steadfast and the Beyond.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.
