# [Signal 4: The Floatmarket](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/10/signal-4-floatmarket.html)

Is this coming through? Are you listening?

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is the signal.

Knowledge is a virus. It wants to replicate, and is almost impossible to kill.
I am a vector for knowledge. If you don't want to be infected, stop listening.

If you can hear me take note, this broadcast is for and about the people of the
Floatmarket, on the Sere Marica. Most people in the Beyond stay close to home;
but when your home is moving from place to place, you can't help but discover
new things.

You must make sure this information reaches the Floatmarket. If you are in the
Floatmarket, listen closely.

*...music...*

Long ago, your town was founded by traders who discovered The Fountain, an
ancient nautical machine making a slow journey around the Sere Marica. The
machine was, and remains, an enigma. No one is certain how it works, what its
purpose is, or even if it is maybe, somehow, intelligent or self-aware. Even
so, town elders did note one thing: the Fountain is a source of fresh water on
a very salty sea.

Your ancestors could travel along with it and trade with the cities and towns
it stopped near. More people joined the burgeoning flotilla; eventually, a
proper town was born.

For generations, you've become a fixture in the Sere Marica, making your
year-long pilgrimage around its shores. But these past few years it has taken a
little longer than normal, hasn't it? The fountain has been making unusual
detours and stops in the past two years, and you don't know why. It makes
sudden shifts in course, making for much deeper waters sometimes for days at a
time. It stops churning out fresh water; instead, it begins making unusual
noises you've never heard before. Then, abruptly, it returns to normal and
heads back to its original course.

There have been rumors making the rounds in the Floatmarket as to why the
fountain has suddenly changed its behavior; some of you think the ancient
numenera is searching for something, and has been for centuries. Maybe it's
finally close to what it seeks.

There have been whispers that it's been tampered with; sabotaged, or altered in
some way for some unknown, possibly sinister, purpose. Others think it may be
reacting to some change in the Sere Marica itself, changing its behavior due to
external stimuli no one can yet detect.

One thing is certain: the stops have been getting more frequent, and you've
begun to hope that someone can turn up some answers about the mystery of the
fountain, and soon.

*...music...*

They say you can purchase anything in Floatmarket, and that's largely true.
Food; exoti goods; weapons; flesh; even answers--for the right price. Few
locals willingly seek out the man called Fish-Face. He's been part of the
Floatmarket for years, rarely appearing in public, and he's never been known to
speak. He lives in a decrepit wooden boat in one of the older parts of the
flotilla. He's some manner of mutant, for certain; pallid skin, fishlike face,
webbed hands, hunched back. As the town moves along the coast, trading at each
port of call, Fish-Face offers only one service: access to the Oracle.

Below the deck of his boat, in a small room painted red, there's a locked
cabinet. In the cabinet is a shriveled...something. For 20 shins, Fish-Face
will lead you into the room. He will open the cabinet--only he knows how. Then,
he'll hand you a knife, and leave you alone with the creature.

No one else can be with you. Use the knife to cut off your finger, and the
Oracle's starry eyes will open. You can ask it any one question, anything at
all, and it will tell you the answer, clearly, honestly, and in a way only you
will understand. Then it will close its eyes and become silent. You can ask it
as many questions...as you have fingers.

*...music...*

There are other rumors in the Floatmarket. In the past week, something big and
dark has begun tailing the town at a distance of about a kilometer, from deep
beneath the waves. It hasn't drawn any closer...at least, not yet.

Recently, a sailor berthed in the town began showing off a map of an uncharted
island in the Sere Marica; he said it's surrounded by a ring of flames that
burns atop the water, and an old structure can be seen on the island. The
sailor was found dead a day later, and the map was missing.

A local boy named Parrot has recently raised some eyebrows claiming he can hear
voices. The weird thing is, people standing hear him can also hear those
voices.

*...music...*

One more thing. One of you recently took in a young woman. She was injured,
pregnant, and in need of help. Your compassion is to be commended. Now kill
her, before it's too late.

There is no more time and I must end this broadcast. To the people of the
Floatmarket: safe journeys.

To everyone else who can hear me, keep listening. I'll be back with more tales
from the Steadfast and the Beyond.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.
