# [Signal 6: Tureen](http://numenerathesignal.blogspot.com/2013/10/signal-6-tureen.html)

Is anyone out there?

I'm Vaux, an informed jack who tells tales, and this is The Signal.

Information has value, but that value is subjective. Am I about to provide you
with something worthless...or worthwhile?

If you can hear me, take note: this broadcast is for and about the people of
Tureen, a town along the canals of Seshar. Much of what we call nature is not,
but that doesn't make it any less senseless or terrible. Tureen is a town in
need of immediate assistance. You must make sure this information reaches them.

If you're in Tureen, listen closely.

*...music...*

Your town along the canals has been a prosperous little trade node between
Nebelich and Nyliesh for generations. You've enjoyed prosperity and good
fortune for decades, safe and content in your lives. Your town has grown and
thrived, and it seemed like the occasional horror stories that you heard from
faraway lands would never threaten your peaceful corner of the Ninth World.

Then, mere days ago, that all ended, swept away by the Iron Wind.

It blew in unexpectedly, with little warning. Fully half the town was taken by
the storm of terror, buildings melting, twisting, screaming like they were
alive. The people and animals that were atomised were the lucky ones.

The unlucky ones...could barely be called people or animals any more. Those of
you who weathered the storm emerged from safety when the Iron Wind dissipated,
to see a swathe of madness had been rent through the order of your lives; and
it's left you wondering if the pieces are even safe enough to pick back up.

Already, you've started referring to the disaster zone as "The Scar," a name
that is likely to stick. What's left of the town's militia has worked to secure
the area but it hasn't been easy. A courier sent to Nebelich for help but it
will be days before arriving even through the canals, and you do need help.

The most pressing concern is the Beast. That's what you've heard the militia
men call it. You don't know exactly what it was before the storm; in fact, it's
impossible that it could have been a single creature. Now, it's a huge,
wailing... thing. Insane, and ravenous for flesh. It lurks amidst the ruins and
has already attacked a party that dared to search for survivors among the
madness that was once part of your sunny town.

Something needs to contain or slay the Beast, and quickly. It's only a matter
of time before it gets bold--or hungry--enough to leave the Scar.

*...music...*

The Beast is the most visible nightmare living in the Scar, but it is far from
the only danger that's been seen since the Iron Wind passed. Other life forms
have crawled, scuttled and slithered from the ruins. Some bear marks or faces
that show them to have once been friends or neighbors; others are of unknown
origin. All are horrible. The merciful thing is to kill them, to end their
pitiful existances.

Some of the landscape itself seems to have come alive in the wake of the storm.
A portion of what was once Main Street has grown tendrils that bite anyone who
tries to pass. A tree still stands on the edge of the old schoolyard, but
instead of fruit, it now grows fist-sized flies that stick to you with
corrosive poison. A spire of blue stone now juts from the area where the well
once stood, rising thirty feet into the sky. Anyone who draws near finds it
hard to concentrate on anything for more than a few moments.

So why would anyone in their right mind venture into the Scar?

Because the Aeon Priest clave was near the heart of the madness, and there are
precious numenera kept in a vault deep within that may have survived the storm.
The clave is also built above an ancient system of tunnels, and survivors could
be trapped within. Someone needs to brave the horrors, and soon, to mount a
search and rescue mission.

*...music...*

There are other ruins in what's left of Tureen.

While the merchant Gobo Tresk survived the storm by merit of being down at the
wharf at the time it hit, he is willing to pay a handsome reward to anyone who
will venture to his shop in the Scar to find and retrieve his lockbox.

A girl named Rolandi watched the entire horror unfold before her eyes and she
found a name for it: God. She has begun to gather others who watched the Iron
Wind sweep through the town, seeing it as the touch of a god of chaos: one who
has blessed the town, and demands tribute.

The innkeeper, Garrol, was caught and the edge of the storm and was petrified,
like a piece of wood--all except his right arm, with which he was reaching for
salvation. The arm is still alive.

*...music...*

We've dwelt on the horror that has befallen Tureen for long enough. To the
people of Tureen, my deepest condolences. To everyone else who can hear me,
keep listening. I'll be back with more tales from the Steadfast and the Beyond.

Iadace, numenera hunters.

I'm Vaux; end signal.
